the UN Secretary General has said he's
appalled by the escalating violence in
Gaza and has condemned the killing of
civilians a spokesperson for Antonio
gutterz made the remark after Israel
bombed gaza's biggest refugee camp for a
second day in a row Israel says its
strikes on Tuesday and Wednesday killed
two Hamas commanders and destroyed
underground military
infrastructure a strike hits gaza's
biggest refugee camp for this second
consecutive
day displaced Palestinians many of whom
have lived in the densely populated
jabalia camp for decades pulled from
under the rubble of what used to be
their
homes what is their fault in all this
it's all gone my sister's house along
with her and her children my brother's
house with his children I lost all my
siblings except for my younger brother
these are all the names 15 names they're
all innocent it's literally a massacre
complete
destruction the UN has called the attack
to quote latest atrocity to befall the
people of Gaza the devastation is nearly
identical to an Israeli strike the day
before that killed dozens of
people Israelis said that strike
targeted a Hamas military commander the
group is classified by Germany the EU
and the us as a terrorist
organization as was published yesterday
we eliminated the commander of the
jabalia Battalion ibraim Bahari he was a
murderous
terrorist striking him caused the
collapse of the building and of the
tunnels that were under the camp all of
this led to the collapse of further
structures Israel has intensified its
offensive in Gaza the Israeli military
released footage that shows the
deployment of air and Naval
forces as well as ground troops carrying
out operations into the
strip we are hitting the terrorists at
all levels from those who fight in the
field to the level of commanders IDF
activity leads the exposure of tunnels
the finding of terrorist and heavy
losses suffered by them unfortunately
there is also a price on aside as
happens in every battle while Israel
says the fighting has killed several of
its own soldiers officials say the war
will go on until their mission is
complete Israel has been bombing Gaza
from the air for weeks but since moving
into the territory with tanks and troops
over the weekend it faces a different
threat that of urban Warfare Israeli
forces have been preparing for this
eventuality but so have Hamas militants
Urban Warfare it's every soldier's worst
nightmare the enemy could lurk behind
every corner but Israel's military given
the long history of conflict with Hamas
militants has long been preparing for
the possibility that one day troops
might be sent in to fight in Gaza a
concrete Labyrinth full of hiding places
for potential
ambushes which has proved deadly in the
past soldiers have drilled in what
house-to-house combat might look like at
the idf's urban Warfare Training Center
known as little Gaza at a site in
southern
Israel now Israeli soldiers operating
inside the Gaza Strip are putting those
lessons to the test as they inch closer
to Gaza City before the war it was one
of the world's most densely populated
cities the Israeli military after
ordering civilians to leave Northern
Gaza has has now designated the area a
battlefield the United Nations citing
Hamas ran local authorities says about
half of all buildings in Gaza have been
damaged or destroyed ahead of a possible
Invasion some people including those
unable to flee due to sickness or injury
remain in Gaza hospitals Israel has
accused Hamas of using hospitals as
military headquarters and using
civilians as human
Shields and then there are the risks
underground the terrorist group and
their allies have built a vast network
of tunnels in Gaza the tunnels are
estimated to stretch hundreds of
kilometers it's likely the corridors
could be mined or booby trapped and
Hamas Defenders will have the advantage
of being more familiar with the
Subterranean
web Israel's Army is aware that ground
fighting inside Gaza is likely to result
in a high number of casualties for
Israel Hamas and Gaza civilians
joining me now for more context is
Marina Miron she's a postdoctoral
researcher in the war studies department
at Kings College London Marina the
Israeli Army has seen action in Gaza
before would it be facing similar
challenges as it did back in 2014 for
instance good day well it might be
facing those challenges from 2014 in
addition to the fact that Hamas had the
time to develop its defenses to learn
more about idf's templates how they
operate so I think today we're seeing a
more prepared adversary who has amongst
other things human Intelligence on the
IDF and how IDF is going to conduct this
operation so U we also see a
proliferation of new technologies such
as drones which will most likely be
deployed during this conflict and
deployed extensively so I think the
overal environment that the IDF will be
facing will be much more challenging
than that in 2014 and we have also seen
that 2014 was not a successful operation
for the IDF we just play a report in
which we show the Israeli Army preparing
for combat in Gaza particularly in its
Urban combat welfare Warfare training
center in southern Israel they call it
euphemistically little Gaza as far as we
understand so based on what you are
saying whatever training templates they
have had so far do you think they are
out ofd date or they will need to be
updated as the Army continues its uh
operations in
Gaza I think what is important to
understand of course having um as you
said um that training camp little Gaza
is a benefit to train for urban combat
however a training environment is always
different from an operational
environment and whatever you plan for is
probably going to fall apart once you
enter an urban area because you cannot
account for all the challenges
multidirectional challenges that will be
facing the troops in Gaza therefore I
think on the one hand Hamas will
probably know or estimate how the
Israeli troops will be handling
themselves on the ground on the one hand
on the other hand it is not just the
preparedness the Tactical preparedness
in urban Warfare there are also other
components such as air and sea and space
um feeding into this so overall the
operation is much more complex and in
order to train it in a training
environment it becomes impossible POS
and very costly so I don't think that um
anything beyond Urban combat has been
trained there such as coordination of
air and Naval assets speaking of air and
Naval assets Israel is also carrying out
an extensive aerial bombing campaign in
Gaza is that also designed to assist
with a ground
Invasion well um the idea of this
bombing campaign is to um destroy the
capabilities or as much the capabilities
that Hamas has in the Gaza Strip and
obviously also to damage its um
underground tunnel Network system
however the effectiveness of these
attacks uh remains to be seen and we
will be seeing that when actual urban
combat begins because um the tanel
network is very extensive um build of
several layers and if we remember as a
battle of mosul in irq um the Islamic
State had only two years to dig tunnels
and it took about eight months um to
make progress there so um Hamas had a
decade or more than a decade to develop
that system um beyond that the
intelligence that the Israeli um
intelligence forces had on those targets
needs to be updated because there might
be new points because Hamas is quite
flexible they will be relocating knowing
that the Israelis will be using air
power and they will be trying to
maximize civilian casualties in order to
exert political and legal pressure on
the Israeli Defense Forces so it is a
bit of a controversial topic with the
air
strikes we'll leave it there for the
time being but thanks so much for
joining us today Marina Miran from Kings
College London thanks so
much thank you very
much at Le at least 320 foreign passport
holders left Gaza through the Rafa
Crossing on Wednesday alongside dozens
of severely injured Palestinians around
7,500 foreigners are expected to leave
over the next 2 weeks under a deal
brokered by
K these were some of the first foreign
passport holders to reach the safety of
Egyptian
soil on the other side hundreds were
hoping for their chance to cross but
only those on a list agreed by Israel in
Egypt would be allowed to do
so after more than 3 weeks under Israeli
bombardment and blockade people here
were desperate to
escape we are relying on God and hoping
we'll get out it's still our country and
we feel sad for it for its Destruction
for our friends and loved ones entire
families were destroyed and erased all
martyred and if it weren't for what
happened we wouldn't
leave as well as those allowed to leave
for good Egyptian authorities have
agreed to a small number of medical
evacuations with ambulances crossing the
border to retrieve the severely
injured once in Egypt they were taken to
nearby hospitals for
treatment gaza's own medical facilities
are desperately short of even basic
supplies and are overflowing with the
injured
and while more Aid trucks were allowed
through once again on Wednesday Aid
groups say it's only a tiny fraction of
what entered daily before the Hamas
terrorist
attacks the head of the un's relief
agency in Gaza stressed that residents
were in urgent need after he crossed
into Rafa for a
visit and I was shock by the fact that
everyone there was was asking for food
was asking for water we I saw almost
every children trying to express their
way that they need to eat they need to
have water um I never ever have seen
something similar in Gaza when I came
before after
conflict Egyptian officials say more
people will be able to leave over the
coming days but it's unclear just how
long the Border will remain open to
foreign passports
holders what is certain is that unless
Egypt's government lets Palestinians
cross to for the vast majority of those
trapped in Gaza Escape will remain
impossible some 30,000 people have had
to leave their homes in southern Lebanon
due to intermittent fighting between
militant group Hezbollah and the Israeli
Army there fears Iranian backed
Hezbollah could open up a new front
against Israel at a time that it's
already fighting against Hamas in Gaza
it's why Israel is taking no chances on
its border with
Lebanon Israeli soldiers on high
alert tanks maintaining positions near
the border with
Lebanon since the October 7 Hamas
terrorist attack on Israel border
clashes between Israel and Iran backed
militant group Hezbollah have become a
daily occurrence
hezbollah's rocket attacks have killed
around seven Israeli
soldiers Israeli drones have hit hisbah
fighters in the southern lebanon's Rocky
terrain and Olive Groves along the
border dozens of hisbah Fighters have
been
killed many believe the Shiite group
strategy so far appears to show caution
in getting involved in a fullscale war
with
[Music]
Israel so far I see that Hezbollah is
managing these issues with rationality
and wisdom and the rules of the game
remain
limited however at the same time I
cannot assure the Lebanese about
anything because things are subject to
hb's
timing even with widespread support for
the Palestinian
the uncertainty is a cause of concern
for many Lebanese already reeling from
one of the worst economic crisis in the
country's
history thousands of people in the
Lebanese Villages and towns in the
crossfire have
evacuated volunteers and local
authorities are scrambling to help
people with limited
means the displaced families have little
appetite for
War what in the 2006 War Lebanon had a
government and a president the
government ordered the towns to take
care of us but now no one cares about us
except for the mayor on his own
initiative in the economic crisis and
complete paralysis that the Lebanese
government is suffering from we as
municipalities depend completely on
donations from Civil Society expatriate
and
charities Civil Defense Force in South
lebanon's Maron area say their fire and
rescue service cannot afford even basic
equipment our gear is very primitive and
there is a shortage of all tools such as
fire resistance suits and extinguisher
cylinders we don't even have helmets or
flak jackets to protect our team so they
can extinguish fires during the
bombing nearby in the mountains
Hezbollah continue to pose a major
threat to
Israel and Israel with its Readiness at
its northern border is not taking any
chances and joining me now for more
context is DW Beirut bureau chief
Muhammad sh Mohammad how Keen is
Hezbollah to open up a full front
against Israel at this
stage well we know that hasah has been
deliberately keeping all options on on
the table his leadership said in many
occasions that it is willing to do
whatever needs to be done uh in the
right time when is the right time we
don't know but everyone is anticipating
the speech of hasah Chief Hassan nasah
tomorrow Friday this will be his first
uh public appearance since the outbreak
of the conflict uh in in Gaza and Israel
on October 7 there have been a lot of
speculations about this speech some are
analyzing that this could be the moment
when nah announces that his party will
open a full front with Israel others
just say it would be um another speech
where he nah will end up ensuring the
status quo on the Lebanese Israeli front
uh Remains the Same despite the expected
escalation in his language but give us a
bit of a context about what we can
expect potentially uh in in this speech
for instance how close are Hamas and
Hezbollah and uh could the progress of
Israel's war against Hamas determine
what Hezbollah
does it did actually determine what what
hasah does to a large extent hasah
joined the conflict on the very second
day after hamas's unprecedented surprise
attack on on Israel on the morning of
October 8th so the party attacked
Israeli military posts in the Shabah
farms in uh uh on the Lebanese Israeli
border which Lebanon consider uh
occupied territory and this was a clear
statement that hasbullah considers
itself in the core of this uh conflict
we know that Hamas and and hisbah are
part of a um um Regional Alliance the
so-called resistance access both parties
receive fund and logistic and political
support from Iran and they long talked
about being part of one strategy of
unifying all fields of confrontation
with Israel and the West as they name it
speaking of Iran Iran's top Diplomat in
fact warned earlier in the week that
Iranian proxies whom he referred to as
resistance groups something you also
alluded to that these groups would not
remain silent unless Israel's war
against Hamas is stopped how seriously
should one take that threat and does it
reflect the popular mood among groups
like
Hezbollah well we are near the the end
of the third week of this uh conflict
and we've been hearing These Warnings
from the Iranians since the beginning
now we've seen some engagement from
Iran's Regional allies like huis who
claimed a couple of missiles and drwn
attacks on on Israel other Shia militias
in Iraq claimed attacks on American
basis as well but so far these attacks
were limited even hisbah which is
considered to be Iran's strongest Ally
in in the region has been keen on
keeping the
scrimmages with with Israel on the
lanese Israeli borders very calculated
and within acceptable Rules of
Engagement we just played a report where
lebanon's kak prime minister najib
mikati said he can't reassure the
Lebanese about anything because things
are subject
uh to hezbollah's timing so the Lebanese
government doesn't appear to have any
control over
Hezbollah right well hasah is the
political party with a military wing it
is by far the most influential player in
uh Lebanon it is seen to be even
stronger than the Lebanese Army the the
head of hasah said that it has a
fighting force of some 100,000 foot
soldier or fighter and thousands of
rockets at its uh disposal now the
government has been clear about working
to prevent War but the truth is it's
hasah who controls the decision of War
and Peace in in lebanan and what has the
impact been on people living in the
Border areas with
Israel I think the the answer really
lies in um what the mayor and the head
of civil defense said in in the report
Lebanon has been Wheeling from the world
worst financial and economic crisis in
its modern history the country's economy
is mainly uh relying on money transfers
from the um Lebanese many Lebanese in
the diaspora who send uh money to
support their their families in here the
government's ability to support the
people in case of war is near zero it
recently presented a an Emergency
Response plan that many opposition
Parliament members perceived as
delusional because it it depends on uh
promised aid from International
organizations we'll leave it there for
the time being thanks so much for
joining us today Muhammad sh DW beut
bureau chief thanks so
much in Israel Hamas militants massacred
around a tenth of the population of one
kibuts in the south of the country those
who remained have been evacuated to a
resort on the Dead Sea there around a
thousand survivors try to find ways of
dealing with their trauma and in many
cases the loss of their loved ones DW's
Rebecca ritters reports from in
booki portraying the dead from a time
before their world fell
apart just one of the therapies helping
these people process their trauma at
this upscale Resort on the Dead
Sea it's a place of relative safety in a
country at War around a thousand
Israelis who escaped the massacre at
kabut beri were evacuated here where
they'll live for at least the next few
months and try to come to terms with
what happened yeah in 6 and a half in
the morning something like this we heard
a lot of boms and we woke up Ella benami
recalls the moment the ordeal began her
parents soon texted her from their home
up the street they were in hiding Hamas
gunman killed more than a 100 people in
Barry that day Ella feared her mom and
dad were among them something like an
hour later I saw a picture of them on
telegram with both terrorist they took
him it's not in Israel I guess it's in
Gaza two weeks later Ella found this
video on telegram showing her captured
mother filmed by
Hamas so looking for clues of where they
might have been taken she and her sister
went back to their childhood home why
why why why why I can't even describe it
it was so hard even yesterday when I
went to
there I couldn't step on the ground
because on every piece of ground I so
body bodies
and I couldn't think
of of walking on there on there on the
world don't donations from across the
country have been pouring in for people
who escaped with only the clothes on
their back they have to tell it over and
over again Dina draw is one of a team of
psychotherapists stationed in the hotel
to help them she says the most important
thing is to get people talking how they
couldn't breathe how they have had no
food how they were worried how they saw
in the WhatsApp uh group that people
are in in in a great in danger how they
escaped what did they see
um they have to repeat it over and over
until the story has a narrative it it
has a beginning middle and an ending she
says for Israelis this was an event
unlike anything in recent memory it's a
collective grief it's something we don't
see usually in Israel you have a terror
attack and a soldier is dead but here
because of the massive numbers we have a
collective uh grief and it's also a
strong thing of a community that they
going through it together going through
it together but each alone in their pain
there isn't a family that didn't
lost someone there isn't a family here
all the families lost someone and even
as a kibuts we are a big family together
and even I lost friends and neighbors
and everyone lost someone
the 7th of October was traumatic for all
Israelis and even as the people from ber
try to heal it's clear their trauma will
be felt for
generations and that's it for now
there's continuing updates on the Israel
Hamas war on our website dw.com and you
can also follow along on our Facebook
and X Pages this of course in addition
to Rolling news coverage on the DW news
channel
I'm B panagi in bin thanks so much for
watching
[Music]
goodbye